# SOA1003

## Public non-static properties must be declared virtual

Public non-static properties in content types with both a getter
and setter must be declared virtual. If this is not the case then
Optimizely will throw exceptions during startup when it scans the
solution for content types and their properties.

The analyzer tries to perform the same checks as Optimizely on all
properties in classes deriving from `ContentData` to see if they
qualify to be registered as properties for the content type and to
show up in the CMS.

- The property must be declared `public`
- The property is not `static`
- The property needs a getter and setter

If all the conditions above are met then the property is qualified.
However, if a qualified property does not also meet one of the
following condition, this diagnostic will be reported and Optimizely
will complain during startup.

- The property has either the keyword `virtual` or `override`
- The property is decorated with `EPiServer.DataAnnotations.IgnoreAttribute`,
signaling it should not be registered as a property on the content type.

## Behind the scene

What's happening in the background is that Optimizely is creating
proxy classes for all content types to be able to override the
properties. The proxy classes is only briefly mentioned in the
Developer documentation. In it the proxy class is explained to
handle reading/writing the property's value from/to the backing
property collection.

> Why is the property declared as virtual? In the background,
a proxy class is created for the page type, where the typed property
on your class is connected to the backing PropertyData instance.
This only works if properties are declared as virtual otherwise they
cant be overridden. If the properties are not declared virtual, you
need to implement get/set so they read/write data to the underlying
property collection instead.

Quote from: [Developer documentation - Properties](https://docs.developers.optimizely.com/content-cloud/v11.0.0-content-cloud/docs/properties)

## More background

In older versions of Episerver (before version 7) was pages and their properties
not strongly typed ("defined in code") but instead managed from the admin interface.
Back then, all page properties had to be referenced by their string name in code.

Much of that backing structure still exists today as you can still access
properties by its string name and new content types or properties can still
be added through the admin interface. It is however not recommended to
add content types or properties through the admin interface anymore and there are
very few situations when this is a good idea.

Example:
```csharp
if ((standardPage["Heading"] as string) == "About Alloy")
	standardPage["Heading"] = "About us";
```


## Read more
- [Developer documentation - Properties](https://docs.developers.optimizely.com/content-cloud/v12.0.0-content-cloud/docs/properties)
- [Wikipedia - Proxy pattern](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proxy_pattern)