# SOA1008

## ScheduledPluginAttribute has no GUID

The GUID parameter was added in EPiServer.CMS.Core 10.3.
This analyzer will not be enabled if a version prior to that is installed.

Unless the scheduled job is brand new, DO NOT JUST ADD A RANDOM GUID!
Keep reading to understand why.

By assigning a GUID to the `ScheduledPlugInAttribute` you
ensure that the scheduled job can be identified even if the class
name or namespace changes.

Moving or renaming a scheduled job without a GUID
will result in a new scheduled job being created in the database
while the old job will still be there but without a settings page.
This means that any settings an admin have made for the old job,
like the scheduled interval and the enabled flag, may be lost and the
execution history from before the change will not be accessible.

## Example

```CSharp
[ScheduledPlugIn] // SOA1008: Missing GUID property, continue reading documentation before adding!
public class MyScheduledJob : ScheduledJobBase
{
}
```

## The GUID

If the scheduled job already exists in the database since earlier it has
already been assigned a random GUID by Optimizely.
If you add a new random GUID to the attribute
that does not match the one in the database, then Optimizely will ignore
the GUID in the attribute and behave as if no GUID was specified at all.

For Optimizely to track the scheduled job correctly the GUID on the
attribute must match the one in the database.

It's important to note that a different random GUID
would have been generated for each environment you have
(like development, staging and production) so it's important to look up the
GUID from your production environment if it has been released that far.

If your site runs Optimizely 12 you can see the GUID
in the url when viewing a job in the administrator interface.
On older versions is the GUID not visible in any interface
and to retrieve it you have to do one of the following things:

- Write code to get it from
[IScheduledJobRepository](https://world.optimizely.com/CsClassLibraries/cms/EPiServer.DataAbstraction.IScheduledJobRepository?version=12)
- Query the database

### Using IScheduledJobRepository

```CSharp
// Prefer Depencency injection over ServiceLocator
var jobRepo = ServiceLocator.Current.GetInstance<IScheduledJobRepository>();
foreach (var job in jobRepo.List())
{
	Debug.WriteLine($"GUID={job.ID} Full type name={job.TypeName}");
}
```

### Querying the database

```SQL
SELECT pkID, TypeName FROM dbo.tblScheduledItem
```

## Related analyzers

This analyzer is a part of a group of analyzers focusing
on Scheduled jobs:

- [SOA1006 - Inherit from ScheduledJobBase](https://github.com/Stekeblad/stekeblad.optimizely.analyzers/blob/master/doc/Analyzers/SOA1006.md)
- [SOA1007 - Decorate with ScheduledPluginAttribute](https://github.com/Stekeblad/stekeblad.optimizely.analyzers/blob/master/doc/Analyzers/SOA1007.md)
- [SOA1008 - ScheduledPluginAttribute has no GUID](https://github.com/Stekeblad/stekeblad.optimizely.analyzers/blob/master/doc/Analyzers/SOA1008.md)
- [SOA1011 - ScheduledPluginAttribute has an invalid GUID](https://github.com/Stekeblad/stekeblad.optimizely.analyzers/blob/master/doc/Analyzers/SOA1011.md)
- [SOA1012 - Multiple scheduled jobs must not share GUID](https://github.com/Stekeblad/stekeblad.optimizely.analyzers/blob/master/doc/Analyzers/SOA1012.md)
- [SOA1039 - Don't register abstract ScheduledJob](https://github.com/Stekeblad/stekeblad.optimizely.analyzers/blob/master/doc/Analyzers/SOA1039.md)
- [SOA1041 - ScheduledJob has no name](https://github.com/Stekeblad/stekeblad.optimizely.analyzers/blob/master/doc/Analyzers/SOA1041.md)

## Read more
- [Class library - ScheduledPluginAttribute](https://world.optimizely.com/CsClassLibraries/cms/EPiServer.PlugIn.ScheduledPlugInAttribute?version=12)